[6/5 verity read-only root] Read-only root configuraiton documentation (#543)
microsoft/CBL-Mariner: toolkit/docs/security/read-only-roots.md

Read-Only Roots
===

- [dm-verity Read Only Roots](#dm-verity-read-only-roots)
  - [Creating Verity Disks](#Creating-Verity-Disks)
  - [Writable Areas](#Writable-Areas)
  - [Root of Trust](#Root-of-Trust)
  - [Users, Machine ID, Misc. Configuration](#Users-Machine-ID-Misc-Configuration)
  - [Forward Error Correction (FEC)](#Forward-Error-Correction-(FEC))

>   - [Overhead](#Overhead)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Hash Tree and FEC Overhead](#Hash-Tree-and-FEC-Overhead)
```

  - [Debugging](#Debugging)
  - [ISO Installers](#ISO-Installers)

## dm-verity Read Only Roots
`dm-verity` is a Device Mapper target which creates read-only partitions with built-in integrity checking. This means a verity partition can detect (and if FEC is enabled, fix) changes to the data in the partition.

> A Merkle hash tree is created from the measurements of each block in the partition (Hash each 4k block, then hash those hashes. Repeat until you have a single hash). The root node of the tree, a single hash, is called the root hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Merkle hash tree is created from the measurements of each block in the partition (Hash each 4k block, then hash those hashes. Repeat until you have a single hash). The root node of the tree, a single hash, is called the `root hash`.
```
nit - emphasis on root hash

When data is read from disk the blocks are hashed and checked against the hash tree to detect any changes. Any change to a block will modify its branch of the tree, all the way down to the root hash. By securing the root hash the entire partition can be secured.

### Creating Verity Disks
Read-only roots can be enabled using the `"ReadOnlyVerityRoot"` key in the image configuration JSON file (See [imageconfig.md](../formats/imageconfig.md#ReadOnlyVerityRoot) for details)

> Since the read-only partition becomes unmodifiable as soon as its measured, the snapshot must be taken at the very end of the build process. The `imager` tool switches the root to read-only mode, then measures it into a hash tree, FEC data, and root hash using the `veritysetup` tool. These files are then placed into the `initramfs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the read-only partition becomes unmodifiable as soon as it's measured, the snapshot must be taken at the very end of the build process. The `imager` tool switches the root to read-only mode, then uses the `veritysetup` tool to measure the root into a hash tree, FEC data, and compute the root hash. These files are then placed into the `initramfs`.
```
nit - clarity

### Writable Areas
The build system currently supports two types of writable areas which are useful for read-only verity disks:

#### Temporary Overlays
Passing a list of directories using the `"TmpfsOverlays"` key in the `"ReadOnlyVerityRoot"` config will cause the initramfs to add `tmpfs` based writable overlays to each listed directory. These overlays are backed in RAM and will be reset after a reboot. These are useful for logging, or other transient data that is not security critical. Ideally the overlays should be kept as small as possible to minimize the number of files which may be maliciously modified at run time. The example configurations mount `/var` under a single overlay, but a more targeted approach is desirable. By default the overlays will consume at most 20% of the available memory. This can be configured using the `"TmpfsOverlaysSize"` key.

#### Writable Mount Points
Traditional mount points still function as expected. A writable data partition can be mounted using the normal configuration keys if desired.

### Root of Trust

> The root of trust for a verity partition is the root hash. If this single hash is trusted, the entire hash tree, and then the full disk, can also be trusted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root of trust for a verity partition is the root hash. If this single hash is trusted, the entire hash tree, and subsequently the root partition, can also be trusted. 
```
nit

> The root hash may be protected three ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root hash may be protected in three ways:
```
nit

Ideally as much of `/etc` as possible should be left read-only to avoid miss-configuration.

### Forward Error Correction (FEC)
Verity supports error correction which will return the original data even if the underlying blocks have been modified (it does not restore the underlying data stored on disk however). FEC incurs some overhead but the hash tree, which is a sunk cost, makes it much more effective than normal Reed-Solomon codes. For a 2GiB disk, FEC with 2 roots (i.e. 2 bytes of error correction codes per 255 bytes of real data) can correct ~16MiB of errors with ~16MiB of overhead. See [veritydisk.go](../../tools/imagegen/configuration/veritydisk.go) for calculation details.

> ### Overhead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hash Tree and FEC Overhead
```
nit
